Improve the UI capability of CMEK (#14163)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-encrypt-cmek.md

Author: down

Reviewer: Preview environment: https://preview-cloud-pingcap-docs-1.pingcap-docs-website-scaffold-1hq.pages.dev/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-encrypt-cmek

If you want to encrypt your data using the KMS owned by your account, take the following steps.

### Step 1. Create a CMEK-enabled project

> You can create a CMEK-enabled project either using the console or using API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are in the `Organization Owner` role of your organization, you can create a CMEK-enabled project using either the TiDB Cloud console or API.
```

<SimpleTab groupId="method">
<div label="Use Console" value="console">

> You need to create a CMEK-enabled project, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a CMEK-enabled project, take the following steps:
```

1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-organization" /> in the lower-left corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

> 2. Click **Organization Settings**. You can enter your organization management page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Organization Settings**.
```

> 3. Click **Create New Project** to enter the project creation page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. On the **Organization Settings** page, click **Create New Project** to open the project creation dialog.
```

4. Fill in a project name.

> 5. Choose to enable the CMEK capability of the Project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Choose to enable the CMEK capability of the project.
```

6. Click **Confirm** to complete the project creation.

> **Note:**
>

> > After creating a CMEK-enabled project, you will be redirected to the Encryption Access page so that you can complete the CMEK configuration.

Reviewer 2: 点了 Confirm 之后，没有自动跳转到 Encryption Access page，是环境的问题吗

</div>
<div label="Use API" value="api">

You can complete this step using TiDB Cloud API through the [Create a CMEK-enabled project](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Project/operation/CreateProject) endpoint. Make sure that the `aws_cmek_enabled` field is set to `true`.

Currently, TiDB Cloud API is still in beta. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud API Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta).

</div>
</SimpleTab>

### Step 2. Complete the CMEK configuration of the project

> You can complete the CMEK configuration of the project either using the console or using API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can complete the CMEK configuration of the project using either the TiDB Cloud console or API.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > You must ensure that the policy of the key meets the requirements, such as: insufficient permissions, account errors, etc. These errors will cause the cluster to be incorrectly created using this key.

Reviewer: 这里的意思是“确保密钥的策略符合要求，并且没有权限不足、账户错误等错误“吗
```suggestion
> You must ensure that the policy of the key meets the requirements and is free from errors such as insufficient permissions or account issues. These errors will cause the cluster to be incorrectly created using this key.
```

<SimpleTab groupId="method">
<div label="Use Console" value="console">

To complete the CMEK configuration of the project, take the following steps:

> 1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner, switch to the target project if you have multiple projects, and then click **Admin**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner, switch to the target project if you have multiple projects, and then click **Project Settings**.
```

2. Click **Encryption Access** to enter the encryption management page of the project.
3. Click **Create Encryption Key** to enter the key creation page.
4. The key provider only supports AWS KMS. You can choose the region where the encryption key is used.
5. Copy and save the JSON file as `ROLE-TRUST-POLICY.JSON`. This file describes the trust relationship. 
6. Add this trust relationship to the key policy of AWS KMS. For more information, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/zh_cn/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
7. Fill in the Key ARN obtained from AWS KMS.

> 8. Click **Create** to finish creating the key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Click **Create** to create the key.
```

> 7. Fill in the Key ARN obtained from AWS KMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Fill in the **KMS Key ARN** obtained from AWS KMS.
```

If you want to encrypt your data using the KMS owned by your account, take the following steps.

### Step 1. Create a CMEK-enabled project

You can create a CMEK-enabled project either using the console or using API.

<SimpleTab groupId="method">
<div label="Use Console" value="console">

You need to create a CMEK-enabled project, take the following steps:

1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-organization" /> in the lower-left corner of the TiDB Cloud console.
2. Click **Organization Settings**. You can enter your organization management page.
3. Click **Create New Project** to enter the project creation page.

> 4. Fill in a project name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Fill in a project name.
```

5. Choose to enable the CMEK capability of the Project.
6. Click **Confirm** to complete the project creation.

> **Note:**
>
> After creating a CMEK-enabled project, you will be redirected to the Encryption Access page so that you can complete the CMEK configuration.

</div>
<div label="Use API" value="api">

You can complete this step using TiDB Cloud API through the [Create a CMEK-enabled project](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Project/operation/CreateProject) endpoint. Make sure that the `aws_cmek_enabled` field is set to `true`.

Currently, TiDB Cloud API is still in beta. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud API Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta).

</div>
</SimpleTab>

### Step 2. Complete the CMEK configuration of the project

You can complete the CMEK configuration of the project either using the console or using API.

<SimpleTab groupId="method">
<div label="Use Console" value="console">

To complete the CMEK configuration of the project, take the following steps:

> 1.  Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner, switch to the target project if you have multiple projects, and then click **Admin**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner, switch to the target project if you have multiple projects, and then click **Admin**.
```

2. Click **Encryption Access** to enter the encryption management page of the project.
3. Click **Create Encryption Key** to enter the key creation page.
4. The key provider only supports AWS KMS. You can choose the region where the encryption key is used.

> 5. Copy and save JSON file as ROLE-TRUST-POLICY.JSON，This file describes the trust relationship. Please add this trust relationship to the key policy of AWS KMS. Please refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/zh_cn/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
> 6. Fill in the Key ARN obtained from AWS KMS.
> 7. Click **Create** to complete the creation of the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Copy and save the JSON file as `ROLE-TRUST-POLICY.JSON`. This file describes the trust relationship. 
6. Add this trust relationship to the key policy of AWS KMS. For more information, refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/zh_cn/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
7. Fill in the Key ARN obtained from AWS KMS.
8. Click **Create** to finish creating the key.
```

</div>
<div label="Use API" value="api">

> You can complete this step using TiDB Cloud API through the [Configure AWS CMEK](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Cluster/operation/CreateAwsCmek) endpoint.
> 
> Currently, TiDB Cloud API is still in beta. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud API Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta).

Reviewer: 建议把 Appendix 里的内容放到这里，放结尾容易看漏信息：

```suggestion
1. Configure the key policy on AWS KMS, and add the following information to the key policy:

    ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Id": "cmek-policy",
        "Statement": [
            // EBS-related policy
            {
                "Sid": "Allow access through EBS for all principals in the account that are authorized to use EBS",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "*"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Encrypt",
                    "kms:Decrypt",
                    "kms:ReEncrypt*",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
                    "kms:CreateGrant",
                    "kms:DescribeKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "kms:CallerAccount": "<pingcap-account>",
                        "kms:ViaService": "ec2.<region>.amazonaws.com"
                    }
                }
            },
            // S3-related policy
            {
                "Sid": "Allow TiDB cloud role to use KMS to store encrypted backup to S3",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<pingcap-account>:root"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Decrypt",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            },
            ... // user's own admin access to KMS
        ]
    }
    ```

    - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
    - `<region>` is the region where you want to create your cluster, for example, `us-west-2`. If you do not want to specify a region, replace `<region>` with a wildcard `*`, and put it in a `StringLike` block.
    - For EBS-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/conditions-kms.html#conditions-kms-caller-account).
    - For S3-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS blog](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/s3-bucket-access-default-encryption).

2. Call the [Configure AWS CMEK](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Cluster/operation/CreateAwsCmek) endpoint of TiDB Cloud API.

    Currently, TiDB Cloud API is still in beta. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud API Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta).
```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> **Note:**
>

> > - This feature is in the development stage and the policy requirement could be subject to change as future features might require more permissions. 
> > - For projects that do not have CMEK enabled, you can view the Encryption Access page, but you are not allowed to click Create New Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - This feature is in the development stage and the policy requirement is subject to change as future features might require more permissions. 
> - For projects without CMEK enabled, you can access the **Encryption Access** page but are not allowed to create a new key.
```

1. On the AWS KMS console, restore the CMEK access policy.
2. On the TiDB Cloud console, restore all clusters in the project.

> 
> ## Appendix
> 
> If you need to configure CMEK through TiDB Cloud API, You need to use the "Configure AWS CMEK" endpoint of the TiDB Cloud API. Before calling the API, you need to configure the key policy on AWS KMS, add the following information to the key policy:
> 
> ```json
> {
>     "Version": "2012-10-17",
>     "Id": "cmek-policy",
>     "Statement": [
>         // EBS-related policy
>         {
>             "Sid": "Allow access through EBS for all principals in the account that are authorized to use EBS",
>             "Effect": "Allow",
>             "Principal": {
>                 "AWS": "*"
>             },
>             "Action": [
>                 "kms:Encrypt",
>                 "kms:Decrypt",
>                 "kms:ReEncrypt*",
>                 "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
>                 "kms:CreateGrant",
>                 "kms:DescribeKey"
>             ],
>             "Resource": "*",
>             "Condition": {
>                 "StringEquals": {
>                     "kms:CallerAccount": "<pingcap-account>",
>                     "kms:ViaService": "ec2.<region>.amazonaws.com"
>                 }
>             }
>         },
>         // S3-related policy
>         {
>             "Sid": "Allow TiDB cloud role to use KMS to store encrypted backup to S3",
>             "Effect": "Allow",
>             "Principal": {
>                 "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<pingcap-account>:root"
>             },
>             "Action": [
>                 "kms:Decrypt",
>                 "kms:GenerateDataKey"
>             ],
>             "Resource": "*"
>         },
>         ... // user's own admin access to KMS
>     ]
> }
> ```
> 
> > **Note:**
> >
> > - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
> > - `<region>` is the region where you want to create your cluster, for example, `us-west-2`. If you do not want to specify a region, replace `<region>` with a wildcard `*`, and put it in a `StringLike` block.
> > - For EBS-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/conditions-kms.html#conditions-kms-caller-account).
> > - For S3-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS blog](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/s3-bucket-access-default-encryption).

Reviewer: 移到上面 API 部分
```suggestion
```

    }
    ```

>     - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

    - `<region>` is the region where you want to create your cluster, for example, `us-west-2`. If you do not want to specify a region, replace `<region>` with a wildcard `*`, and put it in a `StringLike` block.
    - For EBS-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/conditions-kms.html#conditions-kms-caller-account).
    - For S3-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS blog](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/s3-bucket-access-default-encryption).

2. Call the [Configure AWS CMEK](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Cluster/operation/CreateAwsCmek) endpoint of TiDB Cloud API.

    Currently, TiDB Cloud API is still in beta. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud API Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta).

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> **Note:**
>

> > - This feature is in the development stage and the policy requirement is subject to change as future features might require more permissions. 

Reviewer 2: 现在已经 GA 了，这里需要调整下描述吗

> - For projects without CMEK enabled, you can access the **Encryption Access** page but are not allowed to create a new key.

### Step 3. Create a cluster

> Under the project created in Step 1, create a TiDB Dedicated cluster hosted on AWS. For detailed steps, refer to [this document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/create-tidb-cluster). Ensure that the region where the cluster is located is the same as that in Step 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the project created in [Step 1](#step-1-create-a-cmek-enabled-project), create a TiDB Dedicated cluster hosted on AWS. For detailed steps, refer to [this document](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md). Ensure that the region where the cluster is located is the same as that in [Step 2](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-encrypt-cmek.md#step-2-complete-the-cmek-configuration-of-the-project).
```
